This subject was touched upon by last year's guest of honor, the attention of Paul Anderson.
And he made it his central subject I should find myself with no problem with my hands.
Paul's own subject was an appeal for a unitary approach to science fiction, in which philosophy,
love, technology, poetry, and the elements of daily life all played in important and roughly equal roles.
Now, this is an ideal prescription for good science fiction, but it's a good prescription only because it is good for fiction to hold.
And indeed no good fiction of any kind has ever been produced in any other way.
And I feel safe in saying that none ever will.
One side of novels may be Sapphire or Allegory or T-Nobble, that kind of novel where you don't know what's going on,
until you discover that the character named Horace Nils Fitz Campbell is really Henry Luce.
But there are never complete novels for rare exceptions, and they have about as much lasting power as these clean necks.
This description is the most science fiction very well, and Paul did a very thorough job of expanding upon it.
But it seems to me that Paul's utilitarian principle also goes a long way toward explaining why popular or critical successes like the 1984 play of piano, limbo, raising world, styles of the unborn, and so on,
never increase our audience or the prestige of our idiom.
We have asked ourselves time and time again why this is free.
I think I have an answer, I'm not sure.
When these books turn on gimmicks which to us are old and stale,
and usually they handle those gimmicks clumsily and with varying degrees of naivety.
If they command an audience with respect, which are much more fearful and experienced practitioners like I, Paul or Pruitsunax, can't even get close to it.
Orwell had no reputation for novels to have written only one, keep the affidavit for flying, and drew a red bump, and everybody said it was dreadful.
What I'm trying to do is virtually unknown.
Nevertheless, these successes can be accounted for.
Each of these outside authors can be seen to be thinking about something.
George Orwell was nothing from pushing around the devices of that old plot about the future asian type despotism,
in the hopes of finding an annual pression after self-care.
He had had some fundamental to say, the things about which the great philosophical problems of all time,
the nature of the relationship between the individual and the state.
And it is small wonder that people, particularly in our time, smashed up that book with the name of Reginald Hammond.
It is of no importance to Orwell's futureist devices, but to a little seeding,
and still what a little seeding is a dream full of day specialists.
What is important is the proposition he set out to show us,
perhaps the most important contribution by an artist to this problem,
since the South Queen wrote the Antiquity, and perhaps the first original text proposition since then.
This proposition, which is the drive deal of 1984, is only six words wrong.
This is not just six words.
The purpose of power is power.
Not wealth, not luxury, not fame, not a woman of day,
and will certainly not the public welfare, make it enjoyment of power for its own sake.
The most of the kind of people who are attracted to politics, power is not a means to another end, but is in itself the great possible audience.
This is a pretty bloodthirsty notion, precisely because so much history has been supported, particularly recent entries,
but not only is it sharp, it commands attention, and what is the last and the first machines in the very same chapter can possibly do.
I have one more example, and then I will pass on.
There is one last, pretty much the same sort of question.
In this case, it read, person immortality for what?
In Star of the Unborn, you will recall, people didn't die.
They were scientifically changed into a sort of vegetable organism, and planted, so that in effect they lived forever, assuming I suppose somebody else wanted them.
The process sometimes went awry and produced monstrosities.
These things were irreversible, they were just thrown away.
Monstrosities had a tendency, too, to resemble whatever character defect a man had in his original life.
A grasping man, for instance, might turn into a huge, flopping hand and arm, and so on, and you can see the possible audience.
Here again, personally, it's more challenging than a flesh.
It's an old science fiction subject, which I have written about myself until have you all.
But the question of what has to be done with all those years, has been comes up.
What it does, there is usually a little ritual about how wonderful it would be to have all those lifetimes to become experts in some subjects,
or to pursue some gigantic project.
A person with just 90 probable, or one person out of a thousand, or maybe even 100,000,
for the rest of this, the chances are much better than the simply wither of dependence.
Or vegetate mindfully, like veritable flowers, will become more and more civil-mindedly and monstrously the same kind of cripple or sinner that we've learned in our godfather's 70 years.
For a veritable, who was a carpenter, it was perfectly obvious that human psyche isn't built to take the immortality of the flesh.
To me, an agnostic, this conclusion seems one and a percent right.
So now, we have all well talking about the problem of power, fun and good about the problem of gold,
and careful about the problem of time and mortality.
All these books are about some things.
I submit to you, very few science fiction stories even the very best of them are about them.
And that in this sense, they fail to hold unitary tests in the worst possible way.
For all their ingenuity and detail, and their sweetness as exercises, they show new signs of thinking.
And by that, I mean thinking about others that mean something to everyone,
not just about whether or not a match with a risen situation is a rapidly-togetherness, but yes.
And that happens when a general reader, fascinated by fun and good or a veritable or whoever, steps into our field from more of the same.
You may very well notice that what he is now reading is more adjoined in some ways, that one game is going to last him long.
General readers and critics may be taken in temporarily by small ingenuities which are new to them,
but only temporarily. That is not the kind of thing they admire in fiction, nor should that.
Nor are they seeking to have their things in one stimulated.
The genuine sense of wonder, which is a piece of standard equipment in the human brain, can get along very well on what is coming in place to the destructible.
It does not need to be bludgeoned by an endless succession of concocted and visibly spurious models.
Anti-matter, galactic coercions, and numbers of long chains of zeroes, actually do have their fascination.
A new one is newly is all-inspiring, as a five-year-old girl who happens to be yours.
The only name of the science fiction time can be rewarded in headlines for having come to this big time and come out four squares in favor of Particle.
Both saying it is true that wonders are made, but none so wonderful as mine.
Yet you may read several hundred science fiction stories a year without finding where they are, which reflects any consciousness of its banal and ancient axiom.
The writer or reader who still thinks the next building star is inherited more wonderful than the mind and heart of the man who wonders at it himself, is going to learn out of these political wonders sooner or later.
And then perhaps he will blame the readers for the writers of the effort of the divided public we have seen this process going on a long time.
What he is now seeking from fiction of all time, science fiction included, is not the sense of wonder, but the sense of conviction.
The feeling, the story you are reading, is about something that is worth your adult attention and is the author approaching in that light.
Some few works of great science fiction are as serious and rewarding as anything the author might have attempted outside our field.
Childhoods and more than human both pass my proposed test my discipline.
But I have the awful feeling that many of us continue to read science fiction and to write it for no better reason than that it is comfortable and safe.
No matter how outlandish it looks to outsiders, we can deal with it and we'll use it.
And I think it is manifestly impossible to write well about any subject that you regard as comfortable and safe, for to read it well is comfort and safety at what you see.
Food science fiction is neither.
It is precisely the science fiction story that ratting people's teeth and chasing their convictions, that finds its way into the mainstream.
This is the essence of the difference.
And by this I don't mean an icon smashing.
I personally feel quite certain that people will still be reading Ted Sturgeon on the variety and nature of the love relationship.
Longing after the advertising boys have brought their final offence and gone home, there are no longer they are available to be satirized.
Just as they still leave the brothers' car mouth off, the morning the open uncle comes having all they want with them in the same year.
Slavery is dead.
The problems discussed in the brothers are still with us and they all will be.
And we have reached the stage where our physical horizons can't be expanded much more without bursting a bubble of the physical universe.
The ethical, the moral, the philosophical horizons remain.
And those are infinite.
And it is fair, I believe, that the realm of good science fiction must lie before its death and the inferential clues that come directly to the same conclusion.
I quote,
When you're suspending reality, you will die.
By the signs of the rocket ship and the ray gun and the time machine, we indicate the relationship between us is nothing to do with the real world.
By writing the stuff and by reading it, we advocate for action.
We give free play to our unconscious drive and symbols.
We write and read not about the real world, but about ourselves and things within ourselves.
This is true, but it is not all true.
The real world is not different from what we have inside our skulls.
In fact, all we know about the real world is inside our skulls.
The phycotomy which Cheryl describes is not a real phycotomy.
We don't need phycotomy.
It is all in the head.
And that's where it must go.
Otherwise, it is just gadgetry and talk.
The basic thing in terms of what Cata May on bars earns, my visual world speech teacher used to tell me that I must never leave an audience with a general point,
but my soul was provided them with some action they might take if they agreed with me.
If it happens, I have one handed.
The only question I have to deal with is that for any kind of impulse, it can be exerted on what gets written, on what gets thought-finding,
but what gets written is in the river voting.
Next year, when the magic time comes around, and we will lay down to the rest of five or ten possible categories,
and particularly in the novel, because this is where the influence gets made.
I suggest that you put aside your other reasons for admiring your choices just temporarily,
and ask yourself about each type that you have put down.
Is it about anything?
Nothing could be better than the hope of our field, and to let every science fiction writer know, beginning right now,
and from now on, there will be no escape from the play.
Well that is just what that makes, to bring the fitting end to this evening.
Now I'd better be to three thoughts for tonight.
I've been given a piece of news, which I know would have caused given Jim an extra minute,
and I mentioned earlier that I can just finish the work, so I can go back and finish,
and I've just been told that the Bobbein library there aren't except for the gift of his manuscripts,
and papers, and books, and the will be kept there, however, changed this archive.
So I think that I might as well have an entertaining play of changed-dish materials,
which I think might have been in the upstairs part of the restaurant,
if you can look at that night, anytime you're passing,
and finally, to the Latin I know, to say to the other half, everyone who's taken part in this program,
and provided an evening which Jim might have enjoyed as much as we all have,
and most importantly available, I know you've got me just hearing from the person who arranged this,
everything you can go visit there. Two DPS, two DPS.
Tell you the truth, good night, thank you all very much indeed for coming.